h1. Rails Indexes

Rails indexes is a small package of 2 rake tasks that scan your application models and displays a list of columns that _probably_ should be indexed.

note: there should be mode fields depending on your application design and custom queries.

h2. Installation

as a rails plugin:
<pre>script/plugin install git://github.com/eladmeidar/rails_indexes.git</pre>

h2. Usage

<del>Display a simple report:</del>
<pre><del>rake db:show_me_some_indexes</del></pre>
 - *deprecated*

Display a migration for adding/removing all necessary indexes based on associations:
<pre>rake db:show_me_a_migration</pre>

Display a migration for adding/removing all necessary indexes based on AR::Base#find calls (including: find, find_by, find_all_by, find_by_x_and_y, find_all_by_x_and_y):
<pre>rake db:show_me_ar_find_indexes</pre>

Display a migration for adding/removing foreign keys. Foreigner plugin is required.
<pre> rake db:indexes:foreign_keys </pre>

Display a migration for removing duplicated indexes.
<pre> rake db:indexes:duplicates </pre>

Note that it would probably make more sense running those tasks on production, where you *actually* need those indexes to be added.

* Add an option to create a migration that adds all the needed indexes.
* Add an option to scan the application root tree for #find, #find_all_by and #find_by to get some more index-required columns.

h2. Tests

Requires SQLite3 installed, then just:
<pre>rake test</pre>
to run the tests

To run foreign key tests, speficy the adapter which supports foreign keys
as an ENV param. When running SQLite3, foreign key tests are skipped.
<pre>DB=mysql rake test</pre>

A database named 'rails_indexes_test' must exist
<pre> sudo mysqladmin create rails_indexes_test </pre>

h4. Author:

Elad Meidar
"http://blog.eizesus.com":http://blog.eizesus.com

Thanks:
Eric Davis,
"http://littlestreamsoftware.com":http://littlestreamsoftware.com
   
Released under the same license as Ruby. No Support. No Warranty, no Pain.


